
Project Aim:

	The aim of the project is to control a cnc machine with godot. 
functionality I want to achieve is lasering and simple path drilling at first. 

About me:
	My name is johnathon Goss I am a CNC operator and programming enthusiast. 
I have a youtube channle here. https://www.youtube.com/@averagegodotenjoyer
I go by the Average godot enjoyer. 

Introduction and where we are at so far
I used chat gpt a bunch so Ill link to the discussion from the robot overloards
https://chatgpt.com/share/67560522-6210-8002-a0da-f36bfa3cc376

Main highlights how can i take an svg and turn it into gcode. 
Essientially svgs are just 'paths' or can be converted to 'paths' wich will allow me to place xy coordinates. 
all i need for g code is to tell the machine where to be ( x and y ) and what to do (z axis drill or laser)

I tried hooking up an arduino to leds and placing grbl example onto the arduino but the leds didnt light up as i thought they would to simulate the motors or it didnt work 
I am buying a laser etching machine to try it on. as tempting as it is to try on expensive equipment i cant do it.
I also cant justify buying a shit cnc of amazon for this purpose so im buying the parts and building a cnc of my own my brother has a cnc machine already so I will cut the wood frame using 5/8 project boanem17

I have ordered 
	3x nema 17 stepper motor 
	3x tb66004a 9-42v stepper motor driver 
About 68 dollars for 2 three packs of each plus fast shipping on amazon
i have an arduino already

I will be biulding the cnc machine shortly we willl see what happens next week my stuff comes in the mail on tuesday 


I have the coordinates of the shapes and what the shape is supposed to be.

we have no width attribute for the lines but that does not matter right now.!

I just want to take the coordinates from the godot scene and make a simple svg from them... 
lines only 

I need to choose a top point for the svg and plot from there


This is a collection of thoughts and other dumb stuff. 


This is a 'Shape'
func create_shape(Name:String, M3d:MeshInstance3D, IM:ImmediateMesh, Mat:StandardMaterial3D, Pionts:Array, TriangleArray:Array, Notes:String ):
	shape_dict[Name] = {
		"Pionts":Pionts,
		"Meshinstance3d":M3d, 
		"ImmediateMesh":IM,
		"Material":Mat, 
		"TriangleArray":TriangleArray,
		"Notes":Notes}
A dictionary entry that holds the shapes points and other information about it it makes it easy to edit from anywhere in the program once created.
At least thats how it works in my head. 

12/8/2024 
so i have proof of concept basically 
i can take a svg and make g code 
i can make svgs from plotted points in godot.
I have yet to understand how to interface with the machine. 
Everything is very basic but it shows proof of concept. 

 




We have the points of each 'shape' in the item metadata of the list item in the rightside menu. 
meaning we can save shapes individually or all together at this point. 
maybe layering svg by ' shape' would be an effective technique...